+++
title = "2024-03-11"
date = 2024-03-11

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
+++

---

Today is Monday, day 071 of 366 (19.39%). We're in week 11 of 52 (21.15%).

## Planning

What I am going to do today:

- [ ] [Install Adidoks theme to the portuguese pages](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/issues/4)

## Activities executed

Today I started trying to figure out how to implement the theme on the portuguese blog entries. At first I thought I'd just duplicate all the necessary templates, which will most likely work, but seems really rudimentary. I remembered something I saw when I was looking for information in the `get_section` function about a [`trans` function](https://www.getzola.org/documentation/templates/overview/#trans). I tried using it inside the template to simply translate whatever was in english to portuguese, but I kept getting an error saying the language didn't exist (even when I tried it with the example language from Zola's documentation). I started doing some more research and found this [feature request](https://zola.discourse.group/t/i18n-theme-translations/388/3) from Zola's website that sayns `tans` can't be used on templates. Apparently multilingual websites is a common complain and something Zola has been trying to improve for a while.

I came back to the adidoks theme to see if maybe they tried to make things a little bit easier. I found this on the `base.html` template:

```html
<html lang="{{ config.extra.language_code | default(value="en-US") }}">
```

Which means I can set a language code (which won't automatically translate the website, but it's already more than I had before) so I tried setting it in the [index for the portuguese entries](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/blob/feat/install_theme/content/blog_pt_br/_index.md), but when I inspected the page, the language was still 'en-US'. Since this was just a detail I moved on and kept researching. 

After a while I fount this [multilingual websites entry](https://www.getzola.org/documentation/content/multilingual/) in Zola's documentation that shows a way to set a new language in the `config.toml` file and the you can create content and name them `file.{lang_code}.md` so that Zola knows it's on that language. I think this will look really nice if I can get it to work, because it allows me to make every page in portuguese and it also adds the language code to the url, so all portuguese blog entries for example will be `{base_url}/blog/{date}/pt/`.

## Learnings

Today I learned that I can add a language to my website by adding it to my `config.toml` file. I haven't figure everything out yet, but here's the example from Zola's documentation:

```
[languages.fr]
generate_feed = true # there will be a feed for French content
build_search_index = true
taxonomies = [
    {name = "auteurs"},
    {name = "tags"},
]

[languages.fr.translations]
summary = "Mon blog"

[languages.it]
# Italian language doesn't have any taxonomies/feed/search index

[languages.it.translations]
summary = "Mio blog"

# translations for the default language are not prefixed by languages.code
[translations]
summary = "My blog"
```
