+++
title = "2024-03-13"
date = 2024-03-13

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
+++

---

Today is Wednesday, day 073 of 366 (19.94%). We're in week 11 of 52 (21.15%).

## Planning

What I am going to do today:

- [ ] [Configure authors for the entries in portuguese](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/issues/4)

## Activities executed

Today I wasn't able to finish configuring the authors, but I made some really nice progress, especially when it comes to really understanding where everything is coming from in the theme. To try and fix the issues from yesterday, I decided to use the same taxonomy for both languages, but the 'autores' page just didn't have any authors, even though I had an author declared. This time I immediately looked at the URL and knew I was looking in the wrong place again, so I switched it and there it was! Except... everything was in English because of the English templates from Adidoks. So I thought it would be an easy fix, but as it turns out you can't have different templates for the same taxonomy (believe me, I tried). I saw something about `get_taxonomy` accepting a `lang` parameter, but this wouldn't solve my problem.

So I ended up going back to the 'autores' taxonomy and ran into the same issue from yesterday: no authors on the main page even though there was supposed to be one there. I tried going to the URL where the author's page was supposed to be, and it was there! So the page was being generated, just not being listed on the first one. That's when I started really digging into the Adidoks templates to see where everything was coming from, and it all led me to the macros. Looking into them, I saw that when they use the `get_taxonomy` function, they expect a taxonomy of the type `authors`, which is not the case for the blog in Portuguese. I had some trouble figuring out how to create a new macro and use it in the code, and by the time I did, there wasn't much time left for me to implement them, which led to a lot of rush and a lot of errors. I was able to partially translate the summary in the posts; I just have to figure out a way to translate the date. The author for the post still doesn't show, and the 'autores' page is still empty. But I believe these can be fixed tomorrow with the things I discovered today.

Lastly, unfortunately, I won't be done after this. Apparently, the Adidoks is still a submodule in my project even after I followed [these steps](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1260748/how-do-i-remove-a-submodule#:~:text=Via%20the%20page,rm%20%2Drf%20path_to_submodule), which is causing Git to not be able to deploy the site.
