+++
title = "2024-03-15"
date = 2024-03-15

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
+++

---

Today is Friday, day 075 of 366 (20.49%). We're in week 11 of 52 (21.15%).

## Planning

What I am going to do today:

- [x] [Stop using Adidoks as submodule](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/issues/4)
- [x] [Configure authors for the entries in portuguese](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/issues/4)

## Activities executed

Today I started by taking my mind off the author for a little bit. I decided to try and fully remove Adidoks as a submodule so that I could get the remote branch to a working state again, so I decided to reinstall it and get rid of it again. I tried running the command from the [installation step in the documentation](https://www.getzola.org/themes/adidoks/), but it gave me an error saying that `themes/adidoks` already existed in the index. I didn't know what the index was, so I went back to the [steps I followed](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1260748/how-do-i-remove-a-submodule#:~:text=Older%20community%20wiki,rm%20%2Drf%20path_to_submodule) last week and the forth step says: 'Remove the submodule files from the working tree and index: `git rm --cached path_to_submodule` (no trailing slash).' so I ran it and it worked! After that I just cloned Adidoks into a different local repository and copied the files I needed into the worklog. I pushed it to the remote repo and got it back to a working state.

After that I came back to the authors in the entries in Portuguese. Yesterday I thought I would have to do everything manually, but today I decided to give using the same taxonomy (authors) one last shot before scrapping everything. I moved the 'autores' files to the authors folder and renamed them as `.pt.md` and went back to where I was two days ago: the page for the author exists, but the author is not listed on the authors page and doesn't show on the blog entries. First things first, I know I was missing something in the `config.toml` file, so I started testing different things to see what worked and settled on declaring the taxonomies like this:

```toml
taxonomies = [
  {name = "authors", lang = "en"},
  {name = "authors", lang = "pt"}, # Basic definition: no feed or pagination
]
```

both inside and outside of the `[languages.pt]` tag.

With that I made some progress: the author was now showing in the authors list for the entries in Portuguese. I just had to figure out why it wasn't showing in the entries themselves. At first I thought the problem was with the templates, so I used the `lang` variable in the `list.html` and `single.html` that I learned about yesterday to make some if conditions about the section and macro that would be used by each template. That made everything the language it should be, but didn't solve the problem. I did some more research and found that page again about the `lang` parameter for the `get_taxonomy_url` function, so I added it and it worked! 

Finally, all that was left to do was add the author to all existing pages, so I got started on the [script to add the author to all files](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/blob/feat/install_theme/add-author.sh). I already knew I was going to use the `sed` command, from that research I did on [the 7th](https://omnicode.com.br/blog/blog/2024-03-07/), so I went straight to it. I knew all I had to do was replace the fourth line in all the files, so I did some tests to make sure everything was working the right way and after I was confident enough I ran the script. It didn't come out right the first time, I wrote:

```md
[taxonomies]
authors = [Luísa Coelho]
```

instead of:

```md
[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
```

But all I had to do was delete the lines I added (which I also did using `sed`), fix the script, and run it again.

## Learnings

Today I learned a couple things about the `sed` command:

### 1. How to edit a line: 

```bash
sed "{line-num}s/{current-content}/{new-content}/{n-times}" file_name
```

If you want to change the line no matter the current content is you can use `.*` in its place.

### 2. How to delete a line:

```bash
sed '{line-num}d' file_name
```

You can also delete a range of lines by simply separating the first and the last lines with a comma:

```bash
sed '{first-line},{last-line}d' file_name
```

There are a lot more uses for `sed`, these are just the ones I used today.

## Readings

1. [Sed Command to Delete Lines in a File](https://tecadmin.net/sed-command-to-delete-line-in-file/)
2. [How to Change Line Using SED Command](https://www.ibm.com/support/pages/how-change-line-using-sed-command)
